[DOCS][9.x]  Improve ESQL reference docs information architecture (#127248)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-languages/esql.md

---
navigation_title: "{{esql}}"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/esql-language.html
---

# {{esql}} reference [esql-language]

:::{note}
This section provides detailed **reference information** about the {{esql}} language, including syntax, functions, and operators.

For overview, conceptual, and getting started information, refer to the [{{esql}} language overview](docs-content://explore-analyze/query-filter/languages/esql.md) in the **Explore and analyze** section.
:::

> {{esql}} is a SQL-like query language for querying and analyzing time series data in {{es}}. It is designed to be easy to use and understand, while also being powerful enough to handle complex queries.

Reviewer: ESQL is not really SQL-like (except for the rare inspiration we draw from good ol' SQL), and it's not limited to time series data. Maybe like this?
```suggestion
{{esql}} is a piped query language for exploring and analyzing data in {{es}}. It is designed to be easy to use and understand, while also being powerful enough to handle complex data processing.
```

> This reference section provides detailed technical information about {{esql}} features, syntax, and behaviors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reference section provides detailed technical information about {{esql}} features, syntax, and behavior:
```
